Update Hello, World! lesson to use Vite and npm (#111)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-3: react-components/hello-world.md

| `hello-world`                                       | **Replace this** with the name of your new React project. This will be the name of the project and the generated project folder. |
| `--`                               | It's easy to overlook these extra two dashes, but they separate the arguments that are given to the `npm` command from those that are given to `vite` |
| `--template react`                               | This command line option is passed to `vite` and indicates that a standard React project template should be used when creating our project. There are also several other supported template presets that can be used in addition to React.|

If you're interested in reading more about npm CLI commands, try running `npm help` in your terminal for further investigation.

After running `npm create -y vite@latest hello-world -- --template react`, we'll have a new project folder. We should `cd` into our project folder before we do anything else!

```bash
$ cd hello-world
```

## Running A Server

Let's look at what Vite has given us!

> As part of using Vite, we'll begin to use `npm` more regularly. With `npm` CLI, we'll be able to run scripts that are defined in `package.json`, a file also generated by Vite. These scripts can run servers that load and reload our React app, which simplifies our development workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of using Vite, we'll begin to use `npm` more regularly. With the `npm` CLI, we'll be able to run scripts that are defined in `package.json`, a file also generated by Vite. These scripts can run servers that load and reload our React app, which simplifies our development workflow.
```

In our project root, we'll install our dependencies and then start a server with the following two commands in the terminal:

```bash
$ npm install
```

After running `npm install`, we'll see a new directory at the root level called `node_modules` with the installed dependencies. Now we're ready to start the server by running the following command in the terminal:

```bash
$ npm run dev
```

> After the server has been started up, we'll see an address with port `5173` that we can visit in our browser to see our newly generated React app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the server has started up, we'll see an address with port `5173` that we can visit in our browser to see our newly generated React app.
```

In our project root, we'll install our dependencies and then start a server with the following two commands in the terminal:

```bash
$ npm install
```

After running `npm install`, you'll see a new directory at the root level called `node_modules` with the installed dependencies. Now you're ready to start the server by running the following command in the terminal:

```bash
$ npm run dev
```

After the server has been started up, you'll see an address with port `5173` that you can visit in your browser to see your newly generated React app.
![A screenshot of a terminal that shows what one sees upon successful server startup](../assets/vite-react-server-startup.png) *Fig. Terminal after successful startup* [*(Full size image)*](../assets/vite-react-server-startup.png)

To view the app you can right click on `http://localhost:5173` in the terminal and select the option to open the link or copy and paste the address into your browser's address bar.

> By default, our front-end is viewable at `localhost:5173`. 5 is represented by V as a Roman numeral and 173 looks like ITE so together 5173 spells VITE. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, our front-end is viewable at `localhost:5173`. 5 is a letter "V" in Roman numerals and 173 looks like "ITE" so together 5173 spells VITE. 
```

### !end-callout

### !callout-warning

## Server Not Reloading? Stop and Restart It

> If the auto-reload feature does not work (we're editing code, but not seeing any changes in the browser) then it might be necessary to completely stop your server with ctrl-C in the terminal window where it's running, then restarting it again with `npm run dev`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the auto-reload feature does not work (we're editing code, but not seeing any changes in the browser) then it might be necessary to completely stop the server with ctrl-C in the terminal window where it's running, then restarting it again with `npm run dev`.
```

Our project should have the following structure:

```
├── node_modules
├── public
├── src
│   ├── assets
│   ├── App.css
│   ├── App.jsx
│   ├── index.css
│   └── main.jsx

> ├── index.html

Reviewer: Include a line for .eslint.cjs, which is the lint specification that vite adds.

Unsurprisingly (given they don't use semicolons in their template), it doesn't have a warning for semicolons turned on. Maybe we can include the rule the reader could add to turn on that behavior in the semicolon callout below?

Instead, we'll focus on working with the `App` component.

### Exploring `App.jsx`

Consider the contents of `src/App.jsx`.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
import { useState } from 'react'
import reactLogo from './assets/react.svg'
import viteLogo from '/vite.svg'
import './App.css'

function App() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0)

  return (
    <>
      <div>
        <a href="https://vitejs.dev" target="_blank">
          <img src={viteLogo} className="logo" alt="Vite logo" />
        </a>
        <a href="https://react.dev" target="_blank">
          <img src={reactLogo} className="logo react" alt="React logo" />
        </a>
      </div>
      <h1>Vite + React</h1>
      <div className="card">
        <button onClick={() => setCount((count) => count + 1)}>
          count is {count}
        </button>
        <p>
          Edit <code>src/App.jsx</code> and save to test HMR
        </p>
      </div>
      <p className="read-the-docs">
        Click on the Vite and React logos to learn more
      </p>
    </>
  )
}

export default App
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### !callout-warning

> ## Don't Forget Your Semicolons!
> 
> You might have noticed that the default template that Vite provides does not include semicolons. While there are a variety of styles when it comes to writing JavaScript and creating JSX objects, we encourage you to continue using semicolons!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Remember to Use Semicolons!

The default template that Vite provides does not include semicolons. While there are a variety of styles when it comes to writing JavaScript and creating JSX objects, we encourage using semicolons!
```

I'm so annoyed vite doesn't recommend semicolons, and this is annoying for students, but hey. We should make sure that any repos students will work from are updated to include the semicolon rule.

Here, we could add a paragraph like the following: (couldn't include in suggestion due to triple tick behavior)

We can add a line to the `.eslint.cjs` linter rule file to help remind us where they go! Within the `rules` section, add the following after any other rules specified by the template:
```js
semi: ['warn', 'always'],
```

I'd rather include an expandable example of what the rules section would look like. Something like:

detail header: Expand for an example of how the rules section could look after modification
expanded detail:
There could be different rules depending on the version of the `vite` tool used during the project setup. We added the `semi` rule to the end of the `rules` block.
```js
  rules: {
    'react-refresh/only-export-components': [
      'warn',
      { allowConstantExport: true },
    ],
    semi: ['warn', 'always'],
  },
```

* title: Hello, World!
##### !question

`src/App.jsx` imports several resources. Select the resources that are imported.

##### !end-question
##### !options

* `React` from `'react'`
* `'./index.js'`
* `App from './App.jsx'`
* `reactLogo` from `'./assets/react.svg'`

> * `viteLogo` from `'/vite.svg'`

Author: I can replace one of the incorrect options to be useState.

* title: Hello, World!
##### !question

Check all options that are true about `src/App.jsx`.

##### !end-question
##### !options

* `App` is a function, and it returns something

> * `App` is an arrow function

Author: What do you think of: The `<a>` elements have a `rel` attribute

> * `App` is an arrow function

Reviewer: I mean, it's definitely not true. The linter even compains about it! 😆 

Students might be like what the heck? But at least that means they're not overgeneralizing about the kind of function being used.
